hi this is jason stonking for chess calm
we're back in beautiful alankar france
today for the fourth round of the feed a
grand prix tournament will talk to some
of the top players in the world and
bring you an inside perspective on the
tournament as it happens Boris Gelfand
maintained his overall tournament lead
with a draw against Etienne back row and
he also took time to answer a question
from one of our viewers on chess.com
don't follow actually focus on the
gentleman table as I said who cares who
is the first on the inside out seven
school somewhat holdings of the fence
well we had a viewer question for you
from chess calm she loves you willing to
ask are there any preparation rituals
that you go through before a tournament
like this to get ready well I think
preparation it's like permanent process
because to play a lot of tournaments or
between tournaments you have to be ready
for that next event but to this special
tournament I didn't do so much
preparation because World Cup had
finished the few weeks before so I was
mostly mainly trying to recuperate and
get back some energy ok thanks I also
had a question for TIA do you think that
feed a bringing events like this to
France will be helpful and development
of young fresh clothes okay come
straight forward i think in general it's
not only four clans lets go on just
played of excellence for girls in
conversation afghani Tomashevsky address
one ponomaryov also drew their game and
they talked about the effect of the
Sophia rules on tournament play can see
this but just even more just yeah but
like it's typically you will you can
offer a draw but ok it is anyway some
rope and game I were joking about the
Shapiro's earlier do you think that
makes any difference do you think it's a
great thing for chance Oh should I II
don't like to say what's water but just
check statistic same numbers I
don't know I can't explain but somehow
with Sophie rose here is Montrose it's
not like I'm I've in store for Sophia
rose I just think we should just take
many tournaments visser funerals chef
statistic and see where Stevens because
it's quite
concretely want to avoid draw three
inches dogs in under show another is as
for me I think the test cefiro are
necessary in the private ornaments and
the commercial terms but in official
tournaments which I which had parts of
of the world championship cycle
not necessary to because of
in such tournaments players we should
make should have an opportunity to use
all the possibilities and the drawers
draw so Jason is one of the amazing
Hikaru Nakamura also gave us his take on
the rules after his draw with wang hao
so what you're saying is it I'm just
asking if you think I move against a
Greek draws is impractical no I think
it's I think it's fine as long as long
as you know when you reach a position
like the one we have here where it's
just to complete draw flirts can take a
draw i mean as well as long as you as
long as it's okay to take a drawn a
theoretical position like this where
it's working three against working
through it into rules fine I mean but if
for example the you words say you have
to play no matter what till the very end
I don't think that's practical so as
long as they allow you to take drawers
and I mean these sorts of positions i
think it's fine on each Geary's lost
linear dominguez was his second of the
tournament but he wasn't losing any
sleep over it how do you look to the
losses normal day for adjusting you had
problems with falling asleep no no I
mean if that was not if there won't be
my problem you know after this graph
receive yourself completely damaged ship
my help yeah it depends about it because
we've heard that there is a long bus
trip for them from the journey to the
hotel sometimes you
wait is that making things more
difficult to the players I don't think
it's making things difficult I mean you
know I prefer to to be closer to those
playing golf course because I'm always
late and not enough time also we are
playing a bit early for for my taste but
but in you know it's it's okay also you
get some time to sink through these 20
minutes not not a big problem yeah we
generalize last when you are either
playing the same place where you stay or
you are in live in the world of distance
it's very nice to walk for the game I
think and after but it's not not really
affecting things so much i think it's
it's not the best to sit in the past for
20 min before the game itself looking to
change things it's a beautiful church at
least
there was more frustration for Alexander
Greece shook who pressed an advantage
late into the night against fabiano
caruana but only came away with the draw
totally just time safely I was totally
outplayed before this when you have to
play to try to win the tournament does
it change the tents of openings that you
choose to eat well lottery living in
general I usually try to mentor me so
what's up different than any other
person is that the pig I / they do so
Lizzy's reputation of Guru filibuster
pick up just one week ago against young
information so if you know the
filtration of a balloon and why would
you change did you feel today if you
feel like the matchup with each other
was a particularly important game
because you put us have so much on the
line this week or just like any other
game yeah I think all the games are
important on this one was also critical
that I mean I think in general the
result doesn't depend on one game and
the final result doesn't depend on one
game night you can was looking instilled
in a torso some big deal I think it
would appear that was if we needed to
overcome each other but is it is when
you have to just really doesn't like it
in the last matchup of the night the
trouble continued for hometown favorite
Laurel fraschini who lost his second
straight game the winner of the cilia
von chuck joined Boris Gelfand at the
top of the leaderboard a half point
clear ficarra Nakamura and fabiano
caruana check back for more updates and
interviews from the feed a grand prix
here on chess.com and if you have any
questions you'd like to ask the grand
prix players in France send them to me
at the poet 1800 at chess calm